Pretoria - The so-called blessers were more evil than the devil, and the damage they inflicted on communities and the development of the country was immeasurable, Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi said.The men misused the economic power they acquired by luck. Instead of using their money to develop society, they destroy girls and young women, he said.They contributed to the high HIV and Aids infection rate of these young people. We also have a large population of teenage mothers, he said.He referred to girls who fell pregnant from the age of 12 to 24 as premature mothers and said they ultimately sought blessers in order to sustain them economically because they did not finish school.They had no skills or qualifications and therefore became vulnerable to men who promised to provide for them, but these men abused them, said Motsoaledi. The biggest population of people who give birth to premature babies in South Africa are premature mothers, he said. These are the women who have babies before they are ready, often even before they are done being babies themselves. On Thursday was World Premature Day, and Motsoaledi was in Winterveldt, north of the city, to encourage the community to discuss breastfeeding. He asked councillors and community health workers to make sure mothers understood that very important duty they had for full-term and premature babies.The country had 70 000 teenage mothers a year, and these were girls who were supposed to be in school.The minister said young girls had to be kept in school for as long as possible, and at least until matric. Among efforts to keep them there was the recently-launched She Conquers programme. This is a community programme to deal with the issues around teenage pregnancy and barriers to finishing school. It had attracted R3 billion funding and would, in turn, fund programmes developed for specific communities. We want community groups, faith-based organisations and non-governmental organisations to present us with plans geared to succeed, and we will fund them, he said. The selection process will be hard. We do not want to reinvent what is already being done; we just want to co-ordinate it, Motsoaledi added.He told the community members gathered at the event that breastfeeding remained the single most effective method of giving babies their first chance at health.He said breast milk was also the saving grace for premature babies, and they benefited greatly from being breastfed exclusively. The milk boosted their under-developed systems, Motsoaledi told the gathering, which included pregnant mothers and mothers of babies. Nothing has been found that can replace breast milk, he told them.[email&#160;protected]@ntsandvosePretoria News