Pretoria - The Tshwane council is close to finalising the appointments of a new municipal manager and chief financial officer - and hopes to do so by the end of this month.The post of city manager became vacant after Jason Ngobeni resigned days before the end of his contract in August.His former deputy, Lindiwe Kwele, has been acting city manager since then and is understood to be one of the front-runners for the top job. Ngobeni was believed to be the highest paid public servant in the country, netting at least R3 million in annual pay. Also up for grabs is the position of the chief financial officer which has been vacant since Andile Dyakala was suspended by the city in 2014 for alleged irregularities related to a municipal printing tender. Umar Banda has been acting ever since.Mayor Solly Msimanga said the application deadlines of the two posts had passed and names of candidates shortlisted.&quot;The applications are already there; CVs have been received. They have already been shortlisted. It is just a matter of having the panel look at the shortlist and then make its recommendations after the interviews,&quot; he said.Salaries would be determined by the metro council based on what they would be expected to deliver. Msimanga said the council approved the composition of the panel, which would conduct interviews for shortlisted candidates.In terms of the law, the panel should consist of the mayor, a councillor or two and an external person. The external person should be someone who has vast experience of the requirements of the vacancy, preferably from an institution of higher learning. Msimanga said: &quot;We have started engaging with the University of Pretoria and Unisa to give us a name of that external person. We will be getting two councillors from the city and an independent councillor who is from an opposition party.&quot;The process to appoint the city manager would precede that of the chief financial officer because the new city manager has to head a panel to interview candidates for the chief financial officer.That panel will also consist of an external person, a councillor from an opposition party, another from the ruling party and Msimanga.Ngobeni caught many by surprise when he announced his resignation during the inaugural council meeting of the new term. Dyakala had countless legal battles with the previous administration under former ANC mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa.In April, he filed a complaint with the public protector about the abuse of state power by Ramokgopa and Ngobeni, saying this was at the root of his two-year suspension.Msimanga said: &quot;What we found out was never really the issue with the city processes. It was an internal issue of Dyakala refusing to obey what he thought was an unlawful request, which he said made him feel victimised. But that has been finalised from our side. There was no case from our side.&quot;He said that to his knowledge Dyakala had a legal case he was pursuing. &quot;We will let it run its course and the people who are implicated will have to answer to that.&quot; Asked about the possibility of giving Dyakala a second chance to manage the city's purse, Msimanga said: &quot;I can't remember if he applied, but if he has the experience and qualifications, we will give him an opportunity.&quot; [email&#160;protected]Pretoria News