Pretoria - The family of Solly Moutlana, who died in an accident involving a member of the Presidential Protection Unit, was still scrambling for answers on Monday.His niece and family representative Linky Mazibuko said they could still not wrap their heads around what happened and were not coping at all. It was a painful way for my uncle to die. Can you imagine the pain he must have felt? The ever-smiling 59-year-old businessman from Mamelodi was a known philanthropist who always took care of his community.He was also described as soft-spoken gentleman. Ask anyone in Mamelodi about Uncle Solly and they tell you how sweet and caring he was. Mamelodi at large has lost a gem, Mazibuko said.Moutlana left behind his wife and 12-year-old daughter. His daughter is still distraught by her father s passing. It is still surreal to her, said Mazibuko.On the day of his death last Friday, Moutlana was supposed to attend a business meeting scheduled for 10am before it was postponed to midday.He was trying to pursue a business project in the North West. He worked on this project for more than two years, but will never see it materialise, said Mazibuko.Police spokesman Brigadier Mashadi Selepe said the vehicle which hit Moutlana was owned by the police and driven by an on-duty member of the Presidential Protection Unit. A case of culpable homicide is under investigation and the police driver will give his full co-operation, she said.On Saturday, Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba tweeted: I have just received the terrible news that President Jacob Zuma s blue lights brigades killed a friend Solly Moutlana in Pretoria yesterday. Mashaba also tweeted that he was under the impression that blue light convoys were banned in Pretoria, unless under extreme circumstances.But the Presidency distanced itself from reports that Zuma s convoy had been involved in a fatal car accident. Spokesman Dr Bongani Ngqulunga said Zuma was in East London on Friday to participate in a National Council of Provinces event, having travelled from Cape Town. The Presidency, on enquiry, has been informed that police are investigating a case involving the knocking down of a pedestrian by a car driven by a police officer in Pretoria. The pedestrian subsequently passed away. The Presidency extends heartfelt condolences to the family of the deceased on this tragic loss, said Ngqulunga.Gauteng MEC for Health Qedani Mahlangu also conveyed her condolences to the family. She said Moutlana was taken by ambulance to the Tshwane District Hospital and was seen by at least two doctors. For the two hours and 45 minutes he spent at the hospital, he was treated at the accident and emergency unit. Unfortunately, he passed away from severe internal injuries, she added.Funeral arrangements are being made.[email&#160;protected]Pretoria News