Pretoria - Allegations of racism have hit the CSIR, with black employees taking to the streets to air their frustrations. The disgruntled workers picketed at the entrance of the convention centre in Pretoria on Friday during the CSIR excellence award ceremony to honour employees for their outstanding performance.Security at the gate was beefed up and police called in to assist security guards. The picketers held placards bearing messages denouncing acts of racism at the parastatal. Black people have been working on contracts for more than 10 years while their white counterparts get employed full-time, read one of the placards. Organiser of the picket Thulani Ntene said racism was the order of the day at the entity. He bemoaned salary disparities between black and white employees doing the same work.Ntene said other workers didn t join the protest out of fear that they may be victimised. He said those who dared to speak up against the racist situation risked being victimised by white managers. Today we are saying enough is enough. We have been oppressed for a long time, said Ntene. He said it was a shame that an organisationy which had been around since 1945 was still not transformed. Workers demanded that the entity got rid of labour brokering because it was a form of slavery. Outsourcing must also go and all workers must be insourced, they said. Ntene said the number of resignations by black workers was too high because they were unable to stomach the type of racism at the institution. CSIR spokesman Tendani Tsedu said management would look into the workers grievances.The issues related to outsourcing, lack of transformation, victimisation of workers, poor human resource policy and salary discrimination, said Tsedu. We take the issues very seriously and would like to get to the bottom of them. We are going to look into them and engage with our workers with a view to understand where the issues emanated from, he said.The protest was supported by the ANC Youth League in Tshwane. Regional chairman and city councillor Lesego Makhubela said: The reality of the matter is that racialism is alive. He claimed that black professionals at the CSIR were managed by white Afrikaners who only had Grade 6 or 7. The ANC has policies that speak to the problem of lack of transformation, but the problem is with white managers who show defiance to government policies by refusing to enforce them, he said. [email&#160;protected]Pretoria News