Pretoria - Tshwane council meetings were never short of drama since the new term started after the August 3 local government elections.The writing was already on the wall after the election results confirmed the ANC had met its Waterloo by finishing second to the DA. The DA then joined forces with the EFF, Cope, FF Plus, ACDP and other minority parties to run the City of Tshwane, relegating the ANC to the opposition benches for the first time.With the EFF factor looming large, political analysts anticipated fireworks - synonymous with the EFF in Parliament - to manifest in the Sammy Marks council chamber. But so far that prediction had been false, with the EFF having kept a low profile, always warning the ANC and DA not to involve it in their petty squabbles.Since the first council sitting on August 18, the fourth term of council has become a centre of attraction to journalists and the public. ANC caucus leader Mapiti Matsena and councillor Aaron Maluleka have consistently been a thorn in the flesh of the DA councillors. That was evident from day one when former city manager Jason Ngobeni presided over the council proceedings to appoint Speaker Katlego Mathebe and new mayor Solly Msimanga. Both were elected unopposed, but the session was not smooth sailing. Matsena brought in ANC politics involving party member Lucas Ngobeni who had taken the party to court on the eve of the election after he was removed from the nomination list and replaced with Maria Skhosana. Matsena questioned the eligibility of Ngobeni in a council meeting, despite the court ruling he was the rightful councillor. In his acceptance speech, Msimanga made some dramatic announcements, including the banning blue-light brigades within the metropolitan area. The announcement set tongues wagging with the likes of Gauteng Premier David Makhura weighing in to criticise the decision because it did not fall within the city s jurisdiction. Then there was the story about the missing mayoral chain during the inauguration; social media suggesting there were people sabotaging the inauguration of Msimanga by hiding the chain. However, journalists who had been curious to know more about the missing chain , confirmed it did not form part of the capital city's political inauguration rituals of the mayor and was never there to start with.The political rumblings in the council continued with ANC councillors constantly on the DA s case, reminding the party it didn t win the election with an outright majority. The political tempo rose in September when ANC councillors had a confrontation with the metro police. They had been called to remove ANC councillor Lesego Makhubela for disrupting council proceedings. Other party councillors pelted the metro police with water bottles. The incident forced MEC for Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Paul Mashatile to hastily convene a meeting with the capital city's political party leaders in Centurion. In another council meeting, ANC councillors threatened to physically remove two political office bearers, claiming they were illegally appointed by Msimanga. They disputed the appointment of Tiyiselani Babane as the strategic executive head, saying it was illegal because it was not advertised. The appointment of former DA whip Marietha Aucamp as chief of staff in the office of the mayor also came under fire. Mathebe s rulings were also ignored by councillors, particularly from the ANC.An ANC councillor was accused of sexual harassment after he was heard cat-calling a pregnant DA councillor.He refused to leave the chamber after the majority of councillors voted in favour of his suspension. A case of sexual assault had been opened against him.In the same sitting, councillors constantly hurled sexist and racist remarks at each other.Matsena referred to EFF councillor Ncobile Mhlongo as he when he wanted her to withdraw a statement about the party s planned march. But Mhlongo was offended and insisted Matsena withdraw the remark and refer to her properly as a she . At times, the Speaker found herself caught in the crossfire. There is a councillor who is behaving like a cat at the back. Please stop that, Mathebe said in one meeting. She subsequently withdrew her statement after other councillors protested. DA councillor Elma Nel was allegedly assaulted by an ANC councillor in the council chamber. She, too, went to open a case.There had been occasion when community members were ferried to the chamber to disrupt the proceedings. Msimanga is on record as saying the ANC was behind the protests during council meetings. A group of people from Winterveldt fought with the metro police who prevented them from storming into the chamber. The protesters smashed the chamber's glass door. The last meeting - a special sitting - on December 7 was relatively calm with the much-anticipated announcement of the appointment of city manager being put on hold. Msimanga pleaded with councillors to give the panel that conducted interviews for the city manager s post 60 days to make a final decision. Msimanga had earlier appointed Kwele in an acting capacity and her contract as acting municipal manager should have expired by November 30. Msimanga had warned he expected the shenanigans in council to continue for at least a year.It therefore remains to be seen whether the situation will subside next year.Pretoria News