Johannesburg - The charges against Independent Police Investigative Directorate boss Robert McBride were bogus and formed part of a sustained scheme to abuse state institutions for narrow political ends.SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande sounded this stern warning on Friday, stating that such underhanded tactics were likely to increase in the build up to the ANC national elective conference next December. If left unchecked, they could have serious implications for South Africa s young democracy, he said.The decision to charge McBride, former Hawks boss Shadrack Sibiya and private investigator Paul O Sullivan with conspiracy to commit murder, treason and espionage, was a clear example of the increasing securitisation of the state .This, said Nzimande, was because of the intense factionalism, narrow politicisation and corrupting of the state s security agencies. We condemn the security agencies for taking sides in the internal divisions within the ANC, alliance and government. It s clear the state s security agencies have themselves become a threat to national security, said Nzimande, the Minister of Higher Education and Training.Gauteng Hawks head Prince Mokotedi laid the charges against the trio at the Bedfordview Police Station earlier this week. The group allegedly conspired to assassinate Hawks boss General Berning Ntlemeza, National Prosecuting Authority head Advocate Shaun Abrahams and acting National Police Commissioner Lieutenant-General Khomotso Phahlane.Senior SACP members and representatives from the Young Communist League of SA attended the briefing, which followed the conclusion of the annual augmented central committee meeting.Solly Mapaila, the SACP s second deputy general secretary, said it was worrying that state organs were being used as political tools to pursue individuals we differ with .The frivolous fraud charges against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, which were later withdrawn, would have stuck, had we not stood up . The same was now happening with McBride, said Mapaila, who called on the security cluster to direct its focus and energies on important issues such as protecting citizens, and to not pursue political agendas on behalf of certain groupings within the ruling alliance movement.O Sullivan on Friday reiterated that the charges levelled against him were false. I haven t been charged. &quot;I don t expect to be charged. The SACP is right these allegations are bogus. This will come back to bite these people. In the fullness of time, the people of South Africa will become aware of the capture of the criminal justice system in the same way other state institutions have been captured by those loyal to Zuma. Nzimande said the SACP was aware of the many economic, political, social and other challenges that confront our country and how concerned people are about this and would convene a national imbizo before July.Last week, Nzimande threw down the gauntlet to his detractors, commenting that he would not be silenced about internal issues affecting the ruling alliance movement. He was not fearful to lose his job as he served the nation , not political interests. More than ever, the ANC-led alliance is required to give leadership and unite the country to address these challenges, said Nzimande. The SACP urges the ANC to play its full role in this regard. @luyolomkentanePolitical Bureau