Pretoria - In what appears to be key evidence in the State s case against Flying Squad officer, Edward Kennedy Fox, the high court sitting in Vereeniging has heard that gun powder residue was found on his hands on the night he allegedly killed his wife. Fox has been charged with the shooting and killing of his wife of four years, Che Rudelle Fox 2&frac12; years ago. During her testimony, an expert in scientific and forensic analysis Captain Corlett van Ham on Tuesday told the court that she detected primer residue particles from the samples that she tested. Van Ham said if a shot is discharged, a cloud of particles will cover a radius of 2m. She said the particles usually land on the hand of the person who discharged a shot or anything within the 2m radius. Van Ham said the particles will only be detected on an individual if a person has discharged a firearm, or if a person handled a recently discharged firearm, or if a person was in the vicinity of a discharged firearm approximately 2m from where the cloud was formed. While being led in evidence by prosecutor Gerrie Nel, who prosecuted Oscar Pistorius, Van Ham told the court that residue can easily be washed off from the skin s surface. On Monday, Genee Kester,Che Rudelle's mother, had told the court that the accused appeared to have taken a bath and was smelling of cologne when she arrived at the scene of the murder. Kester said she found these details odd as the shooting had occurred in the early hours of the morning. Dr Johannes Schutte, a specialist of over 50 years in performing postmortems, also testified about his findings on the deceased s body on Tuesday. I recorded two surface wounds, one at the back of the head 30mm towards the left lung, Schutte said. This wound was at the back of the neck. &quot;It was a neatly, circular and symmetrical wound with a 10mm brown ring around it. He said based on his opinion, he suspected the projectile to have been at a 90-degree angle. As soon as a bullet strikes any object, it tends to cause the bullet to lose its straight flight and starts wobbling, he said. Schutte added that a bullet might also somersault or even move in a circular motion if its trajectory is interrupted. His testimony contradicted the version given by Fox that an intruder had shot the deceased through their bedroom window. He described the second wound as star-shaped and said it had a 30mm radius on the deceased s forehead. The first wound was the entry wound, while the second was the exit wound, he said. The matter was rolled over to today to afford Fox s defence an opportunity to peruse the postmortem report. Fox is accused of killing Che Rudelle in November 2014, but was only arrested this year. Pretoria News