A striking pile of wreaths around a fountain greeted visitors with condolence messages for young Tshepang Letebele, who lost his life in a tragic accident. The 13-year-old succumbed to his injuries after the schoolbus was involved in an accident on Sunday afternoon in Brits.The pupils and staff members were travelling to the Pilanesberg Nature Reserve for their year-end function.Tshepang was described as a multi-talented musician by director of performing arts at the school Melanie dos Santos. He was a member of the senior orchestra, percussion band, rock band, jazz band, the jazz trio as well as a member of the keynote singers for a number of years, she said. During this year alone, he achieved his sixth grade in violin, fifth grade in piano and fourth grade in drums. He played piano, violin and drums and recently started playing the guitar just for fun.Tshepang was awarded the Robbie MacMillan Scholarship at WHPS for his Grade 7 year. This scholarship is awarded for exceptional musicianship. He was also awarded the Michaelhouse Music Scholarship for 2017. His Grade 7 class teacher, Ryan Sweetlove, said one of his fondest memories of Tshepang was his love for cricket. He played in the third team and had a passion for the game. He was an all-rounder, and did exceptionally well in music, sport and academics. Seeing Tshepang sitting behind or with any of his musical instruments will always be a fond memory for me. He was an absolute gentleman, with a gentle soul. He was a friend to all in his grade and at the school, said Sweetlove.Tributes continued to pour in when matron at the boarding school Denise van der Merwe fondly recalled how Tshepang used to make her laugh. He was not supposed to eat dairy products and was usually really good about it until we served ice-cream. He was always first in line for ice-cream, she recalled.A parent at the school, Shannon Ebrahim, recalled how Tshepang stood out from the crowd as an exceptionally talented boy who was engaged in every aspect of the music programme. During a recent music conference he contributed to almost every musical item, from the marimba band to the choir, and he was one of the very talented solo singers. Ebrahim said she remembered telling her son that he should strive to be like him and become more involved in music. The school has really lost a gem, and he will be sorely missed by his friends and teachers, she said.Details of how the accident occurred are still sketchy and under investigation. Marketing and events co-ordinator at WHPS Samantha Viney said the school was expecting authorities to conduct a full investigation. After the accident, all the boys were transported to MediClinic Brits, where they received treatment. One of them was taken to Netcare Akasia Hospital accompanied by two staff members. Four of the boys who sustained injuries stayed behind at the hospital. Of these, one has since been discharged, while two others were transferred to a Joburg hospital and another to a Pretoria hospital.The boys in the second bus were transported back to school where they received counselling.Headmaster Mark Whitelaw said the school thanked all the people who stopped at the scene and offered help and support. Thank you to all of the WHPS community and friends of the school who have offered their prayers, thoughts and support during this very difficult time, he said.Whitelaw said some of Tshepang's highlights while at WHPS were the Leadership Camp, Grahamstown Festival as well as starting to play the guitar. His parents were too distraught to comment.Pretoria News