Pretoria - Details emerged on Monday of the gruesome killing of two alleged house robbers in Erasmia, whose bloodied pictures had been circulating on Facebook and WhatsApp since Friday night.The graphic pictures received lots of attention after being posted on the Facebook page of Public Servant News Network Pretoria. Attempted robbery in Erasmia (near Laudium) on Friday night. Two victims shot, but the community quickly rallied together and caught the suspects who had guns and beat them to death. This follows the killing of another resident during a robbery on Thursday night. The people have had enough, read the post.In one of the pictures, the dead suspect was lying on his side, wearing a grey top stained with blood from the head injuries he sustained during the alleged mob attack. In the other, his alleged accomplice was face-down with severe injuries to the head.It has since been alleged that the two were beaten to death by community members in Erasmia.Residents claim that four men entered a security estate in the suburb and forcefully gained entry into one of the houses.A community member who asked not to be named told the Pretoria News: The house owner was alerted and immediately confronted the intruders. A neighbour heard the commotion and also intervened. The robbers shot at the owner and the neighbour and fled. They sustained injuries and were rushed to hospital. He said other residents were drawn to the scene by the gunshots. The community members heard the shots and went to see what was happening. They saw the four robbers running away and chased after them; two of them managed to escape while the other two were cornered. The residents hit them with bricks until they died. Police spokesman Lieutenant Kay Makhubela said no arrests had been made in connection with the deaths of the men.Makhubela said police officers who were patrolling the area heard two gunshots, and went to the scene. The officers found a group of people attacking the alleged robbers. They tried to stop them, but it was too late. A house robbery occurred the previous evening in which businessman Zayne Suliman was shot and killed in front of his children. The community members were angered because they feel like they are under siege. There have been about 13 house robberies in Erasmia over the past month. They feel like they are being targeted, he said.According to neighbours, several shots were fired at around 8pm on Thursday at the home of Suliman. It seems there is a gang that has been terrorising the community of Erasmia and Laudium because the same modus operandi was used in these robberies. The gate was removed from its rails, and at least four people were involved. A struggle ensued, followed by a shootout... said the resident. tankiso.makhetha@inl.co.zaPretoria News